This repository contains scripts and data associated with the manuscript “Beyond the carbon footprint: Virtual conferences increase diversity, equity and inclusion.” 

Registration and survey data were collected from three legacy-turned-virtual conferences, specifically the International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR, ~2300 historical average attendees), the American Astronomy Society (AAS) Summer Meeting (~700 historical average attendees), and the North American Membrane Society (NAMS) Annual Conference (~450 historical average attendees). Complementing this is data from Photonics Online Meetups (POM, ~1000 attendees), a conference series that was specifically designed for the online ecosystem prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. These conferences represent varying fields and community sizes and allow for comparisons across a range of STEM backgrounds. Specific data collected include registration and abstract information, spanning information such as the number and type of participants (e.g., students, industry personnel), geographic participation, institution, or gender. Additional data collected on webinar attendance and virtual platform activity were used to assess the efficacy with which the virtual conferences distributed content to attendees. Qualitative data was collected by asking participants to fill out polls as well as pre-and-post conference surveys designed to interrogate the participant experience and field suggestions for improvement.

Scripts included in this repository were written to estimate the carbon footprint of the three legacy-turned-virtual conferences for events for which data was available. 
The script carbon footprint of conference attendees was calculated for all in-person turned virtual conferences as the cumulative emissions associated with the flights and hotel stays of conference participants. The script utilizes the origin location given by each attendee and uses an API to calculate the travel distance from the origin to the conference location and converted distance traveled to greenhouse gas emissions according to the methodology for the myclimate air travel emissions calculator33. Based on attendee-specific sociodemographic data, the scripts also calculate carbon footprint per night for the attendee hotel stay using the Hotel Carbon Measurement Initiative (HCMI) rooms footprint per occupied room from the Hotel Sustainability Benchmarking Tool published by the Cornell Center of Hospitality Research34. Various assumptions were incorporated into the script i.e. students shared rooms, local attendees did not stay in hotels, etc.

Cost of Attendance
The scripts calculate cost of attendance for individual attendees to historically in-person turned virtual conferences by calculating their cost of travel based on air travel distance and summing with the estimated cost of the hotel, food, and conference registration fees. Travel cost was calculated as the one-way air travel distance multiplied by the cost distance for air travel defined in 17, and doubled to represent the cost of a round trip flight. To account for a potential overestimate of travel cost, a sensitivity analysis where the one-way flight cost is multiplied by 1.5 instead of 2 was conducted.
Registration, hotel and food costs were taken from conference records or estimated based on relevant sources. The scripts fill missing data with average values and include various assumptions i.e. local attendees do not have food costs, students shared rooms, etc. 
The scripts calculate cost of attendance to 2020 virtual events as the cost of registration for the virtual events as outlined in conference records.

